Development of a Small, Low-Cost, Networked Buoy for Persistent Ocean Monitoring and Data Acquisition Development of a Small, Low-Cost, Networked Buoy for Persistent Ocean Monitoring and Data Acquisition LT Alexander Laun, USN, PE Naval Architecture & Ocean Engineering Department United States Naval Academy Annapolis, Maryland, USA laun@usna.edu ENS Elizabeth Pittman, USN United States Naval Academy Annapolis, Maryland, USA AbstractThe  modern  ocean  environment is  rapidly emerging  as the next medium for  big  data  analytics. Oceanographers,  environmentalists,  and  maritime  professionals alike  are  increasingly  demanding  real-time  sensor  information. The  most  valuable  currency  in  this  modern  era  is  filtered oceanographic  data,  such  as  quantitative  sea-state  information, sea-surface temperatures, salinity, large-area current behaviors, and  observed  vessel  traffic  patterns.  Recent  research  at  the United States Naval Academy (USNA) has focused on the design, development, and deployment of a small, low-cost, free-floating, networked  buoy  to  provide  such  real-time,  in-situ  data.  Thispaper focuses on the full spectrum of  present-dayresearch/prototyping  activity, including the design of a watertight,  rapidly  configurable  buoy  body;  the  integration  of associated electronic systems using low-cost, commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) technology; and the development of onboard data processing  and  data  transmission  algorithms.  The  final  buoy design features a cylindrical PVC structure, an ARDUINO-based control system, a variety of unique sensors, and IRIDIUM-based satellite connectivity. KeywordsARDUINO; autonomy; big data; buoy; commercial off-the-shelf  (COTS) technology;  data  collection;  IRIDIUM; oceanography; oceanographic data; ocean engineering; unmanned maritime system (UMS) I.  INTRODUCTION TodayÅfs  oceanographic  buoys  serve  to  reduce  the  opacity of the worldÅfs oceans, providing real-time environmental data for  a  variety  of  end-user  applications.  Buoy-derived  ocean circulation  patterns,  mean  surface  temperatures,  and  salinity values  nourish  ever-improving  global  climate  simulations. Measurements  of  observed  sea-state,  including  wave  height and  wave  period,  inform  evolving  design  standards  for practicing naval architects and ocean engineers. Undoubtedly, the worldÅfs modern oceans represent terabytes of underutilized and unexplored potential. Recent  buoy-related  development  activity  has  sought  to Ågenable  persistent  maritime  situational  awareness  over  large ocean  areas  by  deploying  thousands  of  small,  low-cost  floats that could form a distributed sensor networkÅh [1]. Capitalizing on modern advancements in commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) electronics  and  big-data  analytics,  such  activity  truly  pushes the boundaries of buoy development and deployment. Over the past year, motivated by a variety of efforts within the greater maritime  community,  associated  academic  research  at  the United  States  Naval  Academy  (USNA)  has  focused  on  a singular goal: designing, fabricating, and outfitting a small (A-sized), resilient, free-floating, satellite-linked buoy for less than $500 USD. Successful  oceanographic  data  collection  is  consistently challenged by two fundamental factors: overall system cost and sensor persistence. Most ocean-based buoys, though relatively simple in design, are prohibitively expensive for establishing a free-floating, distributed sensor network. As larger oceanographic  buoys  are  typically  anchored  or  moored, widespread  sensor  persistence  is  further  complicated.  By applying the best practices of modern ocean engineering, this paper presents a single, iterative design solution to address the recurring challenges of cost and persistence. II.  DESIGN SPACE EXPLORATION Modern,  free-floating,  surface  buoy  variants  include  disc (toroidal or flat), intermediate (spherical or conical), and spar designs. Of particular interest to this research effort, small spar buoys (Åg10 meters or lessÅh) are defined by Ågsmall waterplane areas  combined  with  large  displacements,Åh  Ågprovide  good platform stability,ÅhÅgcan improve radio transmissioncapability,Åh  and  Ågwill  heave  in  most  wave  periods  but,  if properly  designed,  they  will  remain  fairly  stable  in  rollÅh  [2]. Many of these smaller buoy variants are launched as Ågdrifters,Åh such as the Surface Velocity Program (SVP) drifters routinely deployed  for  the  National  Oceanographic  and  Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Global Drifter Program (GDP) [3]. Since 2004, the NOAA GDP has developed/deployed over 8,700  surface buoys.  Fig. 1  provides a  historical  summary  of GDP  deployment  data,  evidencing  consistent,  contemporary interest in using floats/drifters for persistent ocean monitoring and data acquisition. As detailed in Fig. 2, these SVP drifters are  manufactured  by  six  principal  vendors/distributors: Clearwater Instrumentation, Data Buoy Instrumentation (DBI), Marlin-Yug,  MetOcean  Telematics,  Pacific  Gyre,  Scripps Institution  of  Oceanography (SIO),  and  TECHNOcean. Arguably,  though  these  SVP  drifters  have  been  widely  and successfully  deployed  by  NOAA,  the  per-unit  cost  for  each buoy  (averaging about $2000  USD  for  a basic  model)  is  still prohibitively  expensive  to  achieve  the  overarching  goal  of recent buoy development activity (i.e. deploying an extremely high volume of low-cost, networked floats) [4]. Notably,  however,  commercial  SVP drifter  expenses  have followed  a  reliable  downward  trend  [5].  Converted  to  a present-day (2018) equivalent value, a single buoy in 1993 cost approximately  $9,550  USD.  In  2005,  again  converted  to  a present-day  equivalent,  the  same  buoy  cost  approximately $2,260  USD,  representing  a  76%  reduction  over  a  12  year period.  Assuming that this trend is  valid  (though  not realistically  proven  by  current  vendor  prices),  it  is  entirely feasible for a fully-functional drifting buoy fabricated in 2018 to cost about $500 USD, as this paper will demonstrate. From  a  geometric  perspective,  the  spherical  SVP  drifters produced  by  the  vendors  listed  in  Fig.  2  are  all  relatively similar  in  nature.  For  example,  the  basic  SVP  drifter  system from  SIO  features  a  35.00  centimeter  (diameter)  ABS  plastic sphere/hull  and  a  7.60  meter  nylon  drogue.  Fig.  3  shows  a basic model of this SIO SVP drifting buoy [6]. Drifter variants from all other vendors are comparably sized, and the average system weight is approximately 20.00 kilograms. Overall, parametric analysis of the SVP drifter design space reveals  three  fundamental issues: (1) these commercial buoys do not conform to the stated size requirement for this research effort;  (2)  these  buoys  are  still  too  expensive;  and  (3)  these buoys  are  somewhat  ungainly  and/or  difficult  to  rapidly  re-configure. Though these commercial variants serve as reliable sensors  for  oceanographic  research,  extensive  vendor  support is  still  required  for  mission-specific  customization,  system programming, and general hardware fabrication. III.  HARDWARE DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT The final buoy hardware design, pictured in Fig. 4, features a  cylindrical  PVC  structure,  a  plastic  (watertight)  internal housing,  an  ARDUINO-based  control  system,  a  basic  (solar) power  generation/storage  system,  and  a  baseline  sensor package. To facilitate rapid deployment, an A-sized buoy form factor  bounds  the  geometric  design  space  for  this  research effort.  Specifically,  the  proposed  float  design  could  be  no larger than a 91.44 centimeter (36.00 inch) long cylinder with a maximum diameter of 12.383 centimeters (4.875 inches). This limitation results in a free-floating, spar-type configuration, as opposed  to  a  spherical  (SVP  drifter-like)  geometry.  Also considering ease of fabrication, structural reliability, and total system  cost,  commercial  (Schedule  40)  PVC  tubing  was selected  as  the  final  body  material  for  this  design  effort, providing a vendor agnostic option for buoy development. The body of the final buoy prototype is a 60.96 centimeter (24.00  inch)  long  PVC  cylinder  (excluding  end-caps)  with  a nominal  outer  diameter  of  11.43  centimeters  (4.50  inches), conforming  to  the  size  restrictions  for  this  effort.  The  fully-outfitted buoy weighs 5.90 kilograms and has a design draft of 56.18 centimeters. As measured from the bottom of the buoy, the center-of-gravity (KG) is located 20.82 centimeters above baseline,  and  the  center-of-buoyancy  (KB)  is  located  28.10 centimeters  above  baseline.  Using  MAXSURF,  a  naval architecture software program, a positive (transverse) metacentric  height  (GMT)  was  assessed  with  a  sufficient (positive) range-of-stability [2, 7]. Of note, 2.00 kilograms of lead shot (mixed with epoxy resin) was added to the base of the buoy to establish sufficient stability. The  buoy  prototype  contains  an  internal  housing  for  all components.  Leveraging  COTS technology,  all  buoy  functionality is  controlled  by  an ARDUINO  MEGA  2560  microcontroller.  ARDUINO  is  an open-source  platform  that  features  low-cost  hardware  (and software) to encourage rapid  prototyping  and  system innovation  [8].  The  ARDUINO  MEGA  2560  microcontroller was selected for its versatility, reliability, relatively low power consumption, ease of programming, and extensive network of digital input/output (hardware serial) pins. For  proper  functionality,  the  ARDUINO  MEGA  2560 microcontroller  requires  constant,  high-quality  power.  The float  design  provides  a  reliable  (5.00  volt)  input  to  the microcontroller  using  a  step-up/step-down  (boost/buck)  DC voltage regulator from Pololu Robotics & Electronics. Power is supplied directly from an onboard lithium-ion battery (rated for approximately  260  kilojoules),  re-charged  by  a  waterproof, externally-mounted  solar  panel  from  Voltaic  Systems.  Given the  inherent  risk  with  continuously  charging/discharging  a lithium-ion battery, a commercial charging circuit (manufactured by Adafruit) provides independent management of the buoyÅfs overall power system. Fig.  5  provides  a  basic  schematic  of  the  overall  buoy system architecture. For the baseline sensor package, the float prototype  features  an  Adafruit  BNO055  Absolute  Orientation Sensor,  an  Adafruit  Ultimate  GPS  Breakout,  a  XBee  modem (for local wireless communication), and a RockBlock 9603 (for long-range  satellite  communication).  All  sensors/components are  powered  directly  from  a  common  5.00  volt  supply,  as previously detailed. The  Adafruit  BNO055  Absolute  Orientation  Sensor  is  a robust inertial measurement unit (IMU) resolving accelerometer,  magnetometer,  and  gyroscope  data  into  a readily  discernible  output  [9].  The  Adafruit  Ultimate  GPS Breakout provides standard clock-time, latitude, and longitude information  for  the  buoy.  For  near-shore  operations,  within approximately 1.61 kilometers of the buoy, the onboard XBee modem facilitates remote (serial) data analysis/monitoring. For all  other  anticipated  operations,  relevant  buoy  data is communicated via the RockBlock 9603. The RockBlock 9603 supports  IRIDIUM  short-burst  data  (SBD)  connectivity  by interfacing with an IRIDIUM 9603N transceiver (in this case, from NAL Research Corporation). The IRIDIUM commercial satellite  constellation  provides  the  most  reliable,  affordable mechanism  to  enable  persistent  ocean  monitoring  and  data acquisition. Fully  configured/outfitted  with  all  listed  COTS  systems, excluding  any  other  unique  sensors  and/or  payloads,  the proposed  buoy  prototype costs about  $700  USD. Unfortunately,  this  exceeds  the  expenditure  goal  for  this project ($500 USD) by 40%. Notably, however, the hardware required to support IRIDIUM satellite connectivity represents $250 USD (36%) of the total buoy cost. For near-shore buoys, satellite  connectivity  could  be  replaced  by  long-range  wi-fi, radio frequency (RF), or even cellular-based data transmission hardware  for  a  much  more  reasonable  cost,  likely  within  the budget for this design effort. IV.  SOFTWARE DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT The  software  architecture  for  the  buoy  prototype  serves three primary functions: (1) deriving digital and/or analog data from all onboard sensors; (2) parsing and formatting/packaging all  derived  data;  and  (3)  transmitting  data  off-hull  with  a logical,  routine  periodicity.  The  ARDUINO  programming language  provides  sufficient  flexibility  and  versatility  to achieve  such  functionality.  Using  a  series  of  open-source libraries  for  each  COTS  sensor,  the  ARDUINO  MEGA 2560 microcontroller  receives  digital  (serial)  input  data  from  the baseline sensor package. Since the RockBlock 9603 is directly connected  to  the  microcontroller  via  an  FTDI  cable, properly formatted  serial  data  can  be  uploaded  to  the  IRIDIUM modemÅfs  buffer  and  transmitted  off-hull  as  soon  as  satellite connectivity is established. Practical  code  development  is  a  non-trivial  matter,  but  a detailed  discussion  of  such  a  process  is  beyond  the  scope  of this  paper.  Again,  most  notably,  a  series  of  open-source ARDUINO libraries have been leveraged to provide a robust, fully-functional  software  architecture.  For  example,  via GitHub,  the  Adafruit  BNO055  Absolute  Orientation  Sensor library  features  a  variety  of  unique  ARDUINO  scripts (ÅgsketchesÅh) to directly output IMU orientation. Little time was spent validating these individual scripts, but, rather, buoy code development focused on identifying, modifying, and compiling available source code. At a specified interval, the current buoy data  algorithm  compiles/transmits local time, latitude, longitude,  average  buoy  speed,  altitude,  compass  heading, average  wave  height,  average  wave  period,  and  system temperature.  When  deployed  offshore,  all  buoy  data  is communicated  via the IRIDIUM commercial satelliteconstellation and received as a formatted e-mail. V.  OPERATIONAL TEST AND EVALUATION To date, prototype test and evaluation efforts have focused on  the  following:  (1)  watertight  integrity;  (2)  power  system functionality;  (3) data  acquisition;  (4) IMU performance; and (5)  satellite-based  data transmission.  Though  open-water testing  of  the  buoy  prototype  has  yet  to  be  performed, individual  subsystems  have  been  successfully  tested  in  a controlled (laboratory) environment. To test overall watertight integrity, the buoy prototype was submerged  in  a  small  ballast  tank  at  the  Naval  Academy Hydromechanics  Laboratory  (NAHL).  All  of  the  major  buoy joints/connections rely on (thickened) marine-grade epoxy, and these  demonstrated  no  immediate  evidence  of  leakage  or failure.  Open-water  testing  is  still  required  to  prove  the structural  longevity  of  this  prototype,  as  a  one-year  mission endurance  is  desired,  but  the  separate  (internal)  housing  for electronics  should  mitigate  any  negative  consequences  of unexpected leakage into the principal buoy body. Power system functionality was evaluated via bench-testing of  a  complete  solar  panel  and  lithium-ion  battery  circuit, including  an  integrated  Adafruit  charging  circuit  apparatus. The  complete  power  system  was  able  to  provide  constant, reliable power to the ARDUINO MEGA 2560 microcontroller, and  the  lithium-ion  battery  was  successfully  discharged/re-charged through multiple power cycles. Open-water testing is still required to determine if the integrated power system can withstand long periods of insufficient sunlight (i.e. worst-case storm scenarios in the Atlantic Ocean). Data  acquisition  functionality  was  evaluated  via  bench-testing of a complete buoy circuit (fabricated on a breadboard). Using  a  XBee  modem,  all  desired  data  was  successfully transmitted  to  a  stand-alone  laptop  running  a  basic  serial terminal utility. The buoy circuit was also tested outdoors, and proper GPS functionality was observed (including low figure-of-merit fixes). BNO055  IMU  functionality  was  explored  in  the  120-foot tow-tank  at  NAHL.  Since  early  2016,  Wayne  Pavalko  (The Johns  Hopkins  University  Applied  Physics  Laboratory)  has been  fabricating  and  deploying  a  series  of  small,  low-cost buoys in the Atlantic Ocean for the Drifting Buoy Project [10]. His  most  recent  buoy  design  iteration  uses  a  BNO055  IMU, and collaborative tow-tank testing was performed in June 2018 to  assess  general  IMU  performance.  As  shown  in  Fig.  6,  a series of measured, regular waves were generated in the NAHL 120-foot two-tank, and the  Pavalko  buoyÅfs  onboard accelerometer  was  used  to  estimate  average  wave  height  and average wave period. Wave period was successfully estimated by  the  buoy,  within  2%  of  readings  from  a  wave  probe positioned  in  the  tow-tank.  However,  for  this  same  series  of regular  waves,  estimates  of  wave  height  varied  from  3%  to 40% of those directly measured by the calibrated wave probe. The  limited  success  with  initial  (IMU-dependent)  wave height estimation can be attributed to several factors. Like the Pavalko  buoy,  the  proposed  buoy  prototype  uses  an  open-source  fast  Fourier  transform  (FFT)  library  for  all  associated signal  processing.  The  buoy  must  be  pre-programmed  with  a variety of fixed input parameters, including a desired weighting (windowing) function. Further research is necessary to identify the best windowing function for onboard signal processing, but improper function selection/application can result in significant resolution  error  [11].  In  addition  to  careful  selection  of  FFT input  parameters,  buoy  hydrodynamic  behavior  must  also  be incorporated  into  any  onboard  signal  processing  algorithms. Spar  buoys  are  likely  to  be  Ågsurface  decoupled,Åh  requiring consideration of added-mass coefficients and overall response amplitude  operator  (RAO)  characteristics  [2].  Subsequent research  is  necessary  to  calculate  these  geometry-dependent properties  (for  each  relevant  degree-of-freedom),  including more  extensive,  computer-based  modeling/simulation  of  the proposed buoy design. transmission Satellite-based  data transmission functionality  was evaluated  by  positioning  a test  circuit  outdoors.  The RockBlock  9603  module  (already  featuring  an  integrated ceramic  antenna)  was  connected  to  an  ARDUINO  MEGA 2560  microcontroller.  A  series  of  ARDUINO  sketches  were uploaded to the microcontroller to test/verify SBD messages of varying  length  and  format.  In  a  benign  environment,  all messages  were  successfully  transmitted  from  the  test  circuit and received via e-mail. Open-water testing is still required to determine the overall probability/likelihood of successful data transmission in a realistic ocean environment. Such testing will likely  reveal  the  need  to  install  an  independent,  external antenna to better maintain satellite connectivity. VI.  FUTURE RESEARCH EFFORT Subsequent research activity will focus on computer-based modeling/simulation, additional tow-tank testing, and rigorous open-water  testing.  As  previously  discussed,  onboard  signal processing  algorithms  must  be  improved,  long-term  power system  functionality  must  be  verified,  and  buoy  survivability must be confirmed. Given the low-cost, expendable nature of this buoy design, open-water testing will be prioritized for the immediate  future,  and  the  authors  intend  to  deploy  several buoys to test networked communication behaviors. VII. CONCLUSION The primary purpose of this research effort was to design, fabricate,  and  deploy  a  small, free-floating, low-cost, networked  buoy  for  persistent  ocean  monitoring  and  data acquisition.  This  paper  detailed  the  process  by  which,  in  a single year, a comprehensive buoy prototype was developed at USNA. Though additional (open-water) testing is required, the proposed  buoy  prototype  has  demonstrated  the  ability  to successfully  transmit  meaningful  data,  using  both  near-range and  far-range  (IRIDIUM-based)  communication  mechanisms, for a lower cost than existing (commercial) variants. Undoubtedly, oceanographic data collection has entered an era  of  truly  dramatic  change.  Affordable  COTS  sensors  and electronic systems, as demonstrated by this research effort, can be  successfully  leveraged  to  provide  persistent,  large-area sensory coverage. Data transmitted from these low-cost floats can be analyzed with the most powerful constituents of modern big  data  analytics:  artificial  intelligence  (AI)  and  machine learning  (ML)  algorithms.  Like  comparable  efforts  within todayÅfs  space  industry,  buoy  development  and  deployment costs  are  being  reduced  to  the  point  where  scientifically-minded individuals (rather than large organizations) can afford highly-capable  sensors  and  successfully  contribute  to  the greater portfolio of ocean-centric research. ACKNOWLEDGMENT The  authors  would  like  to  acknowledge  the  tremendous mentorship from Mr. John Waterston, Mr. Jason Rhea, and Mr. Wayne Pavalko.  Additionally,  the authors remain  grateful  for the  extensive  support  provided  by  the  faculty/staff  of  the USNA  Naval  Architecture  &  Ocean  Engineering  Department (including NAHL). 