Chemical and radiological detection using UAVÅfs Chemical and radiological detection using UAVÅfs with ATEX compliance: Proof of concept in port and maritime incident-based scenarios Mario Monteiro Marques1, Diogo Teles1, Alexandre Valrio Rodrigues1, V. Lobo1, Jlio Gouveia-Carvalho2, Wilson Antunes2, Tiago Goncalves2, Alfredo Jos Martins Nogueira Baptista3, Filipe Duarte4 1Centro de Investigao Naval (CINAV), Marinha Portuguesa, Almada, Portugal 2Unidade Militar Laboratorial Defesa Biolgica e Qumica (UMLDBQ),Exrcito Portugus, Lisboa, Portugal 3IST, Lisboa, Portugal 4ISKYEX, Lisboa, Portugal Abstract  Nowadays,  oceans  represent  a  very  important part  of  our  economies,  as  ways  of  communication  between countries  and  because  of  the  resources  they  contain,  making their  safety  and  protection  major  concerns  that  we  all  face. Because of this, there are several threats which must be dealt with.  One  of  these  threats  are  the  Chemical,  Biological, Radiological  and  Nuclear  (CBRN)  agents.  In  this  framework, the development of technologies with the potential to increase the  capabilities  for  detection  of  pollutants  or  toxic  materials and situational awareness plays a significant role in the case of events  in  the  scope  of  maritime  accidents,  pollution  or  port safety  and  security.  These  scenarios  can  pose  substantial challenges  to  the  operations,  due  to  their  complexity,  and  the use  of  unmanned  aerial  vehicles  (UAV) increasingly becoming  ubiquitous  in  this  context.  This  paper  is  focused  in operation  environment  demonstrations,  which  aimed to validate  the  operational  feasibility  of  the  concept  simulating two different scenarios; chemical and radiological. The selected scenarios were chosen on a risk probability analysis, being very approximate to a real-life incident. This system was tested, and the  validation  tests  are  also  represented.  It  proved  to  be  an asset in CBRN releases, either intentional or non-intentional. Keywords Unmanned Systems; CBRN; Environment. I.  INTRODUCTION The contemporary world is shaping the future based on an  ever-increasing  importance  of  the  seas  in  our  societies. On a prospective basis, it can be observed a trend to a new era  of  increased  commerce,  with  correspondingly  bigger ships  and  deeper  ports  in  an  environmental  context  of  an increased  likelihood  of  the  occurrence  of  stronger  storms, considering the prospects driven by the climate change. All these  aspects  contribute  to  a  more  plausible  and  broader spectrum of threats for the future. The consideration of these threats  must  be  the  basis  of  the  pertinence  and  the requirements for the development of new technologies, that could  be  part  of  the  assets  related  to  the  preparedness  and response to these threats. In this framework, the development  of  technologies  with  the  potential  to  increase the  capabilities  for  detection  of  pollutants  [1]  or  toxic materials and  situational awareness plays a significant role in  the  case  of  events  in  the  scope  of  maritime  accidents, pollution or port safety and security. Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear (CBRN) hazards  are  real  threats  in  this  context,  and  they  must  be taken  into  consideration  because  of  their  disruptive  impact. There are several sources of CBRN threats and they can be separated  in  two  main  categories:  intentional  and  non-intentional.  Intentional  threats  include  conventional  mass destruction  weapons,  forbidden  nowadays.  However,  the rapid  advances in  biological  and technology  sciences increase  the  threat  of  conventional  use  of  biological  and chemical  substances,  as  terrorism  agents  [2].  On  the  other hand,  non-intentional  threats  are  generally  associated  with incidents due to a mix of natural or man-made causes, such as disease outbreaks (e.g. Ebola in Africa), or the Chernobyl and Fukushima accidents. Both these categories are different, but with one thing in common, the loss of many human lives.  These  scenarios  can  pose  substantial  challenges  to  the operations, due to their complexity, and the use of UAV [3], swarms of robotic systems [4] and multi-robot teams [5] is increasingly for this fact the complexity became higher and all  the  vehicles  must  share  information  and  become interoperable [6][7]. However, in spite of being a relatively mature  technology,  there  are  some  gaps  related  to  its operational  applicability,  where  the  existence  of  explosive atmospheres,  that  could  be  part  of  the  scenarios  above mentioned,  should  be  addressed  in  the  development  of operational  requirements  bearing  in  mind  the  issue  of  the compliance according to the ATEX (atmosphres explosibles) framework. CBRN threats are very dangerous to human life and fast response  systems  are  crucial  to  save  lives.  Mitigation responses  are  usually  done  employing  human  operators  in extreme  life  threating  scenarios,  which  require  high  safety procedures [8]. The response process generally includes: the reconnaissance  of  the  affected  area,  initial  detection  of  the agent, sample collection, decontamination, first aid, medical evacuation,  among  others.  However,  the  main  step  in  a prompt response is the initial detection of the agent type in the crisis scenario.    This  paper  is  organized  according  to  the  following structure:  section  II  provides  some  insight  related  to  thecontext  of  GammaEx  project;  section  III  describes  the Radiological  Scenario;  section  IV  describes  the  Chemical Secnario; finally, a conclusions section. II.  CONTEXT OF WORK involved Due  to  the  rapid  advancement  in  UAV  and  experience  that  has  been  gained  by  many  nations involved incontemporary operations worldwide, CBRN detection in its current  form  is  very  likely  to  experience  a  fast  transition towards a decade of new capabilities. Generally, in the past, the main focus has been concentrated around mounted and dismounted  CBRN  reconnaissance.  With  the  emergence  of new  technologies  and  the  focus  on  force  protection  in  all operations,  capability  requirements  are  now  addressing  a new  topic  of  unmanned  platforms  as  part  of  CBRN operations [9]. The GammaEX architecture (Figure 1) is composed of:  a sensors  module, a  navigation and control  module, power module,  payload  module,  a  communications  module  and  a Command & Control module. The  GammaEX  project  aims  to  increase  chemical  and radiological agents detection and monitoring using UAVs, to reduce  the  risk  exposure  and  life  threatening  of  human operators [10]. The  proposed system  integrates in real time the  data  received  by  sensors  and  is  capable  to  generate heatmaps identifying the contaminated areas in the hot zone. The data obtained compose a set of images presented in the visible or Infrared (IR) spectrum, giving a defined picture of the contamination location.  This  project  was  developed  considering  the  operation under potentially explosive atmospheres, devising an ATEX certification  [11].  This  certification  establishes  minimum  requirements to ensure safety of equipment, components and protective  devices  (briefly  called  products)  for  operation  in potentially explosive atmospheres [12]. When aboard a ship, the  ATEX  certification  proves  to  be  essential,  due  to  the presence  of  potential  explosive  atmospheres  in  kitchens, engine and generators rooms. The  radiologic  sensors  can  identify  the  isotope  by  the analysis  of  the  gamma  radiation  spectrum.  It  was  also developed  a  portable  chemical  detector  adapted  for  UAVs use,  capable  to  determine  the  concentration  of  chemical agents,  released  during  industrial  incidents  or  in  chemical attacks.  The  concept  was  tested,  developing  sensors  to determine  the  concentration  of  carbon  monoxide,  hydrogen sulphide, oxygen and the lower explosive limit. The project was  conceived  taking  into  consideration  the  use  of  remote control stations, and during the project, there were developed portable  detection  equipments  for  that  purpose.  Finally,  an integration software was settled, for operation in a command station,  which receives  and  merges the information transmitted  by  field  reconnaissance  teams  using  portable detection equipments and the information transmitted by an UAV equipped with CR sensor modules.   The GammaEX projectÅfs  validation process  is  based  on two  scenarios  of  CBRN  incidents  on  board  of  ships  and ashore, consistent with a port environment.    This  process  was  supported  by  the  Damage  Control Department of the Naval Technology School of the Portuguese Navy, with the objective of simulating Navy and Army interventions, considering a plausible and establishing a near real scenario.   These scenarios are described in the following sections. III.  RADIOLOGICAL SCENARIO  In the  first  scenario, a radiological threat in a  maritime environment  was  simulated.  The  threat,  materialized  by  a radiological  hazard,  comes  from  an  ionizing  source  of  a nuclear  propulsion  submarine,  which  harboured in  a Portuguese  Naval  Base.  During  its  stay,  the  Radiological Safety and Protection Laboratory was called to monitor the water  and  sediment  radiation,  to  identify  possible  leakages of  radionuclides  from  the  nuclear  engine.  This  procedure was man centred and to test a remote detection, the system created by the GammaEX project was employed, where the UAV  was  used  to  identify  remotely  any  radioactive contaminated areas. In the  first  scenario, the  radiologic,  a  maritime environment  was  simulated.  It  was  simulated  that  the submarine  ÅgSPRINGFIELDÅh  was  in  the  Portuguese  Naval Base  and  the  Radiologic  Safety  and  Protection  Laboratory established a  monitoring operation to avoid the occurrence of a catastrophic event.  The ÅgSPRINGFIELDÅh was Los Angeles class submarine which was commissioned on 1992. Its propulsion consisted in  a  PWR  type  nuclear  reactor  made  by  GE  with  two turbines  producing  148  MW  and  an  auxiliary  motor  with 242 kW. When these types of ships are in Portuguese territory, the NavyÅfs  staff  asks  for  the  Radiologic  Safety  and  Protection Laboratory  from  Instituto  Superior  Tcnico  to  activate  an Environmental  Radiological  Surveillance  plan  to  monitor the ambient radiation and the radioactivity in several water samples from the river Tagus estuary [13], to detect eventual accidental  discharges  resulting  from  the  nuclear  activation processes.    During  the  shipÅfs  visit,  and  for  the  purpose  of  the exercise and demonstration, there were detected in the water and  in  bivalves,  concentrations  of  artificial  radionuclides. This  might  represent  possible  leakages  from  the  nuclear engine  in  the  water  resulting  in  a  nuclear  or  radiological accident.  After  this,  the  UAV  took  off  from  the  Command  Post Vehicle,  parked  in  the  non-contaminated  area.  The  UAV uses  an  aerial  system  with  remote  operation.  After  taking off, it went downwind to the incident area, transmitting live information to the Command Post.  The  first  phase  was  the  reconnaissance,  in  which  the UAV detects the radiological agents. This system is made in accordance  with the  ATEX  certificate  giving it the capability of operating in scenarios with danger of explosive atmospheres.  On  site,  the  UAV  identifies  the  potential  hot spots and sends the GPS coordinates to the Lab.  The  second  phase  was  the  UAV  decontamination process  where,  after  going  to  the  aircraft  decontamination area, military personal applied decontaminant with portable equipment  (Figure  2).  After  this,  the  land  reconnaissance teams did their mission on the incident site. IV.  CHEMICAL SCENARIO The chemical scenario consisted in a series of explosions involving toxic industrial chemicals resulting in a fire in one of the warehouses in the Port of Alfeite with two injured. At the moment of the explosion, unknown chemical containers were projected leading to a massive leak of toxic industrial chemicals.  Because  of  the  insufficiency  of  means  and  the incapability  of  identification  of  the  released  chemicals  by the first responders, a reinforcement of means with detection capabilities was requested.  To  try  to  avoid  human  losses  due  to  the  danger  of  the site,  local  authorities  requested  to  the  Portuguese  Army, through the CBRN Defense Element, the execution of aerial reconnaissance of the incident area. The Portuguese Army is prepared to respond to this type of  incidents  through  the  CBRN  Defense  Element,  which consists on a structure for the response to CBRN incidents. This element can be deployed in National territory through the Civil Protection Agency or by request of another entity in public interest missions. They can execute several actions including detection, reconnaissance and decontamination of victims, personnel, equipment, infrastructures and terrain in CBRN situations.  In this  scenario, the  military  personnel from the CBRN Defense  Element,  proceeded  to  the  evaluation  of  the situation  and  then,  established  a  safety  perimeter  and operational areas according to the wind direction. After that, there were implemented structures like the Command Post, Decontamination Area and Decontaminated Reunion Area. In the next phase, the UAV took off from the Command Post  Vehicle  and  went to the  contaminated  area, transmitting live data to the Command Post. This remotely operated  aerial  system  does  the  reconnaissance  of  the  area (Figure 3) through the live caption and recording of images, allowing  the  monitoring  of  the  chemical  agents  even  in explosive environments due to the ATEX certification. After  this,  the  UAV  went  to  the  decontamination  area where  it  is  decontaminated  by  military  personnel  with portable decontamination equipment (Figure 4).   V.  CONCLUSIONS The use of UAV is becoming ubiquitous in several types of  operations,  in  particular  in  risky  interventions  where these  types  of  vehicles  and  systems  can  play  an  important role to the improvement of the situational awareness in the command post, while lowering the risks to humans involved in  operations.  This  aspect  creates  a  paradigm  shift  in command, control and management of operations, where the CBRN  operations  can  be  used  as  an  example  in  defining new roles for UAV and new concepts of operations. This  current  trend  opens  a  wide  range  of  opportunities for  application  of  UAV,  and  also  a  correlated  spectrum  of new risks, that demands new solutions. The employment of UAV in  CBRN operations  should also be addressed in the context  of  different  environments,  such  as  explosive atmospheres,  that  could  be  part  of  port  and  maritime incident-based scenarios. The  GammaEx  project  is  based  on  the  emergence  of  a new  concept,  addressing  the  use  of  UAV  in  CBRN operations,  considering  the  environmental  context  of  the explosive  atmospheres.  The  development  of  UAV  with remote detection capabilities and ATEX compliance within this  project,  was  proposed  in  a  proof  of  concept  base, considering near-real scenarios. The selected scenarios were chosen  on  a risk  probability  analysis,  being  very approximate to a real-life incident. Both  validation  scenarios  proved  that  the  GammaEX concept,  based  on  the  operation  of  a  UAV  with  ATEX compliance,  equipped  with  sensors  for  remote  detection  of chemical and radiological agents, was realistic and operable in  the  field  under  stress  circumstances.  The  near  real scenarios  with  a  real  fire  obtained  by  the  combustion  of toxic industrial chemicals, allowed the detectors testing in a real  fire  situation,  which  lead  to  the  understanding  of sensors  behavior  in  these  types  of  scenarios.  This  project relied on data collected from a big set of sensors, integrated in  a  UAVs  system  for  CBRN  applications.  The  concept shows  successful  results,  reducing  personnel  exposition risks.   ACKNOWLEDGMENT  This  work  was  funded  by  the  Portuguese  Ministry  of Defense  -  Armaments  Directorate,  under  the  National Programming Law (LPM). 